maas/plugins/README.md, before:

**Please use the following rules when creating rcbops MaaS plugins:**

1. Import errors result in an error status.
2. Inability to access a dependent service (such as keystone) also result in an error status.
3. Not able to obtain a client or not able to connect to the API endpoint returns status OK, and the problem is reported in the metrics as the API being down.  No further metrics are sent at this point (including a response time).
4. Unexpected exceptions triggered during the run cause an error status, with the text of the exception in the message.
5. Response times are reported as uint32 in milliseconds.

A discussion of these rules can be found in <https://github.com/rcbops/rcbops-maas/pull/43>.


### SUPPORTING LIBRARIES

#### maas_common.py  

Contains many helper functions that the various plugins use to perform keystone authentication, write metrics consistently, handle errors consistently etc.  For keystone auth, it expects the presence of a /root/openrc-maas that contains credentials for a keystone user that you have created specifically for the purposes of monitoring.
The contents of this file would look something like this:
    
    # COMMON OPENSTACK ENVS
    export OS_USERNAME=maas-user
    export OS_PASSWORD=mypassword
    export OS_TENANT_NAME=maas-tenant
    export OS_AUTH_URL=http://1.2.3.4:5000/v2.0
    export OS_NO_CACHE=1

### LOCAL API CHECKS

***
#### nova_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a nova API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return
##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric nova_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric nova_api_local_response_time double 186.774 ms
    metric nova_instances_in_state_ACTIVE uint32 2 instances
    metric nova_instances_in_state_STOPPED uint32 0 instances
    metric nova_instances_in_state_ERROR uint32 0 instances

***
#### cinder_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a cinder API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric cinder_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric cinder_api_local_response_time double 211.968 ms
    metric total_cinder_volumes uint32 2 volumes
    metric cinder_available_volumes uint32 1 volumes
    metric cinder_in-use_volumes uint32 1 volumes
    metric cinder_error_volumes uint32 0 volumes
    metric total_cinder_snapshots uint32 0 snapshots
    metric cinder_available_snaps uint32 0 snapshots
    metric cinder_in-use_snaps uint32 0 snapshots
    metric cinder_error_snaps uint32 0 snapshots

***
#### keystone_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a keystone API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--
##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric keystone_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric keystone_api_local_response_time double 67.161 ms
    metric keystone_user_count uint32 12 users
    metric keystone_tenant_count uint32 2 tenants

***
#### neutron_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a neutron API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--
##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric neutron_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric neutron_api_local_response_time double 188.356 ms
    metric neutron_networks uint32 1 networks
    metric neutron_agents uint32 21 agents
    metric neutron_routers uint32 0 routers
    metric neutron_subnets uint32 1 subnets

***
#### glance_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a glance API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric glance_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric glance_api_local_response_time double 325.883 ms
    metric glance_active_images uint32 2 images
    metric glance_queued_images uint32 0 images
    metric glance_killed_images uint32 0 images

***
#### heat_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a (native) heat API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric heat_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric heat_api_local_response_time double 22.752 ms

***
#### service_api_local_check.py

##### mandatory args:
<name> of service to test
IP address of service to test
Port of service to test
##### optional args:
--path: path to tag on to the end of the url
--auth: whether to authenticate with keystone before the request
--ssl: use https or not
--version: hit a specific version of the api

##### example output:

    metric <name>_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric <name>_api_local_response_time double 6.222 ms

***
***

### SERVICE CHECKS

#### nova_service_check.py

##### Description:
polls the nova api and gets a list of all nova services running in the environment, then checks the output to see if each one is up or not. If a service is marked as administratively down, the check will skip it.

##### mandatory args:
Hostname or IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric nova-scheduler_on_host_aio1_nova_scheduler_container-e7b92e0f uint32 1
    metric nova-conductor_on_host_aio1_nova_conductor_container-dcddd54a uint32 1
    metric nova-compute_on_host_aio1_nova_compute_container-19824c74 uint32 1
    ...

***
#### cinder_service_check.py

##### Description:
polls the cinder api and gets a list of all cinder services running in the environment, then checks the output to see if each one is up or not. If a service is marked as administratively down, the check will skip it.

##### mandatory args:
Hostname or IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric cinder-scheduler_on_host_aio1_cinder_volumes_container-b6ad3de7 uint32 1
    metric cinder-volume_on_host_aio1_cinder_volumes_container-b6ad3de7 uint32 1
    ...

***
#### neutron_service_check.py

##### Description:
polls the neutron api and gets a list of all neutron agents running in the environment, then checks the output to see if each one is up or not. If an agent is marked as administratively down, the check will skip it.

##### mandatory args:
Hostname or IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric neutron-metadata-agent_8a1a5b16-8546-4801-a31f-e07dce8c068b_on_host_big3.localdomain uint32 1
    metric neutron-linuxbridge-agent_cac1fd39-e23d-47ea-aa20-99f0accf5584_on_host_aio1_nova_compute_container-19824c74 uint32 1
    metric neutron-dhcp-agent_d89db127-2bc7-473a-bcb0-ac89345397e0_on_host_big3.localdomain uint32 1
    metric neutron-linuxbridge-agent_e86cee43-47bf-42cd-872f-a623e458e549_on_host_big3.localdomain uint32 1
    ...

***
***
### OTHER CHECKS
***
#### glance_registry_local_check.py

##### Description:
Connects directly to the glance registry and tests status by calling an arbitry url

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test

##### example output:

    metric glance_registry_local_status uint32 1
    metric glance_registry_local_response_time uint32 356.917 ms

***
#### memcached_status.py

##### Description:
Connects to a memcached server

##### mandatory args:
IP address of memcached server

##### optional args:
--port: port of service to test (default '15672')

##### example output:

    metric memcache_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric memcache_total_items uint64 563324 items
    metric memcache_get_hits uint64 4543534 hits
    metric memcache_get_misses uint64 2346565 misses
    metric memcache_total_connections uint64 42565 connections

***
#### horizon_check.py

##### Description:
Checks the status of the horizon dashboard. First checks that the login page is available, then uses the creds from the openrc-maas file to actually log in.

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric splash_status_code uint32 200
    metric splash_milliseconds double 83.557 ms
    metric login_status_code uint32 200 http_status
    metric login_milliseconds double 1344.399 ms

***
#### rabbitmq_status.py

##### Description:
connects to an individual member of a rabbit cluster and grabs statistics from the rabbit status API

##### optional args:
--host: IP of service to test (default 'localhost')
--port: port of service to test (default '15672')
--username: username to test with (default 'guest')
--password: password to test with (default 'guest')

##### example output:

    metric rabbitmq_uptime int64 73439448 ms
    metric rabbitmq_proc_total int64 1048576 processes
    metric rabbitmq_proc_used int64 180 processes
    metric rabbitmq_messages int64 0 messages
    metric rabbitmq_sockets_total int64 3594 fd
    metric rabbitmq_fd_used int64 24 fd
    metric rabbitmq_mem_used int64 41562432 bytes
    metric rabbitmq_fd_total int64 4096 fd
    metric rabbitmq_disk_free_alarm_status uint32 1
    metric rabbitmq_mem_limit int64 3362471936 bytes
    metric rabbitmq_mem_alarm_status uint32 1
    metric rabbitmq_sockets_used int64 1 fd
    metric rabbitmq_messages_unacknowledged int64 0 messages
    metric rabbitmq_messages_ready int64 0 messages

***
#### galera_check.py

##### Description:
connects to an individual member of a galera cluster and checks various statuses to ensure the member is fully synced and considered active

##### optional args:
--host: IP of service to test (default 'localhost')
--port: port of service to test (default '15672')

##### example output:

    metric wsrep_replicated_bytes int64 320737952 bytes
    metric wsrep_received_bytes int64 33470 bytes
    metric wsrep_commit_window double 1.000000
    metric wsrep_cluster_size int64 3 nodes
    metric queries_per_second int64 5792715 qps
    metric wsrep_cluster_state_uuid string 67e41d08-165d-11e4-9d87-7e94ef43b302
    metric wsrep_cluster_status string primary
    metric wsrep_local_state_uuid string 67e41d08-165d-11e4-9d87-7e94ef43b302
    metric wsrep_local_state_comment string synced

***
#### conntrack_count.py

#### Description:
Returns, as metrics, the values of /proc/sys/net/netfilter/nf_conntrack_count and /proc/sys/net/netfilter/nf_conntrack_max.

The kernel modules nf_conntrack_ipv4 and/or nf_conntrack_ipv6 must be loaded for this plugin to work.

#### Example output:

    status okay
    metric nf_conntrack_max uint32 262144
    metric nf_conntrack_count uint32 354

***
#### hp_monitoring.py

#### Description:
Returns metrics indicating the status of parts of HP hardware.

#### Example output:

    status okay
    metric hardware_memory_status uint32 1
    metric hardware_processors_status uint32 1
    metric hardware_disk_status uint32 1

Commit message:

Add maas external check for neutron metadata proxy
The neutron metadata agent proxy provides access from within neutron
network namespaces to the neutron metadata agent and thus to the
various sources of metadata provided to instances on 169.254.169.254
at port 80 when cloud-init is used.

The metadata agent has monitoring in RPC but has been reported to be
running but non-responsive on some occasions (see issue #342). The
new check tests the agent's proxy from within the namespace to
monitor responsiveness. Because the agent will use the client host
IP to look for metadata but the request is not originating from an
instance a 404 Not Found response is expected from the agent.

Because local checks are expected to operate from the host rather
than inside a container, and the host does not have ready access to
neutron network namespaces, the monitor must probe for an appropriate
container and resorts to executing a curl request through the network
namespace within the selected container for each network that is
expected to be proxied (only those networks which have ports). This is
deemed easier to verify and understand through command shell
operations than alternative solutions.

This solution seems to work regardless of the value of OSA's
nova_force_config_drive setting or the use of the config-drive feature
in Nova.

Addresses #342

maas/plugins/README.md, after:

**Please use the following rules when creating rcbops MaaS plugins:**

1. Import errors result in an error status.
2. Inability to access a dependent service (such as keystone) also result in an error status.
3. Not able to obtain a client or not able to connect to the API endpoint returns status OK, and the problem is reported in the metrics as the API being down.  No further metrics are sent at this point (including a response time).
4. Unexpected exceptions triggered during the run cause an error status, with the text of the exception in the message.
5. Response times are reported as uint32 in milliseconds.

A discussion of these rules can be found in <https://github.com/rcbops/rcbops-maas/pull/43>.


### SUPPORTING LIBRARIES

#### maas_common.py  

Contains many helper functions that the various plugins use to perform keystone authentication, write metrics consistently, handle errors consistently etc.  For keystone auth, it expects the presence of a /root/openrc-maas that contains credentials for a keystone user that you have created specifically for the purposes of monitoring.
The contents of this file would look something like this:
    
    # COMMON OPENSTACK ENVS
    export OS_USERNAME=maas-user
    export OS_PASSWORD=mypassword
    export OS_TENANT_NAME=maas-tenant
    export OS_AUTH_URL=http://1.2.3.4:5000/v2.0
    export OS_NO_CACHE=1

### LOCAL API CHECKS

***
#### nova_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a nova API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return
##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric nova_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric nova_api_local_response_time double 186.774 ms
    metric nova_instances_in_state_ACTIVE uint32 2 instances
    metric nova_instances_in_state_STOPPED uint32 0 instances
    metric nova_instances_in_state_ERROR uint32 0 instances

***
#### cinder_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a cinder API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric cinder_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric cinder_api_local_response_time double 211.968 ms
    metric total_cinder_volumes uint32 2 volumes
    metric cinder_available_volumes uint32 1 volumes
    metric cinder_in-use_volumes uint32 1 volumes
    metric cinder_error_volumes uint32 0 volumes
    metric total_cinder_snapshots uint32 0 snapshots
    metric cinder_available_snaps uint32 0 snapshots
    metric cinder_in-use_snaps uint32 0 snapshots
    metric cinder_error_snaps uint32 0 snapshots

***
#### keystone_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a keystone API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--
##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric keystone_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric keystone_api_local_response_time double 67.161 ms
    metric keystone_user_count uint32 12 users
    metric keystone_tenant_count uint32 2 tenants

***
#### neutron_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a neutron API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--
##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric neutron_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric neutron_api_local_response_time double 188.356 ms
    metric neutron_networks uint32 1 networks
    metric neutron_agents uint32 21 agents
    metric neutron_routers uint32 0 routers
    metric neutron_subnets uint32 1 subnets

***
#### glance_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a glance API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    status okay
    metric glance_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric glance_api_local_response_time double 325.883 ms
    metric glance_active_images uint32 2 images
    metric glance_queued_images uint32 0 images
    metric glance_killed_images uint32 0 images

***
#### heat_api_local_check.py

##### Description:
Polls a (native) heat API living on the specified IP. Checks to see if the API is up, and then also gathers a list of metrics to return--

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric heat_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric heat_api_local_response_time double 22.752 ms

***
#### service_api_local_check.py

##### mandatory args:
<name> of service to test
IP address of service to test
Port of service to test
##### optional args:
--path: path to tag on to the end of the url
--auth: whether to authenticate with keystone before the request
--ssl: use https or not
--version: hit a specific version of the api

##### example output:

    metric <name>_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric <name>_api_local_response_time double 6.222 ms

***
***

### SERVICE CHECKS

#### nova_service_check.py

##### Description:
polls the nova api and gets a list of all nova services running in the environment, then checks the output to see if each one is up or not. If a service is marked as administratively down, the check will skip it.

##### mandatory args:
Hostname or IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric nova-scheduler_on_host_aio1_nova_scheduler_container-e7b92e0f uint32 1
    metric nova-conductor_on_host_aio1_nova_conductor_container-dcddd54a uint32 1
    metric nova-compute_on_host_aio1_nova_compute_container-19824c74 uint32 1
    ...

***
#### cinder_service_check.py

##### Description:
polls the cinder api and gets a list of all cinder services running in the environment, then checks the output to see if each one is up or not. If a service is marked as administratively down, the check will skip it.

##### mandatory args:
Hostname or IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric cinder-scheduler_on_host_aio1_cinder_volumes_container-b6ad3de7 uint32 1
    metric cinder-volume_on_host_aio1_cinder_volumes_container-b6ad3de7 uint32 1
    ...

***
#### neutron_service_check.py

##### Description:
polls the neutron api and gets a list of all neutron agents running in the environment, then checks the output to see if each one is up or not. If an agent is marked as administratively down, the check will skip it.

##### mandatory args:
Hostname or IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric neutron-metadata-agent_8a1a5b16-8546-4801-a31f-e07dce8c068b_on_host_big3.localdomain uint32 1
    metric neutron-linuxbridge-agent_cac1fd39-e23d-47ea-aa20-99f0accf5584_on_host_aio1_nova_compute_container-19824c74 uint32 1
    metric neutron-dhcp-agent_d89db127-2bc7-473a-bcb0-ac89345397e0_on_host_big3.localdomain uint32 1
    metric neutron-linuxbridge-agent_e86cee43-47bf-42cd-872f-a623e458e549_on_host_big3.localdomain uint32 1
    ...

***
#### neutron_metadata_local_check.py

##### Description:
polls the neutron metadata agent proxies in each network namespace with DHCP enabled to ensure the agent is responsive.

##### mandatory args:
Hostname or IP address of Neutron API service
##### example output:

    metric neutron-metadata-agent-proxy_status uint32 1
    ...

***
***
### OTHER CHECKS
***
#### glance_registry_local_check.py

##### Description:
Connects directly to the glance registry and tests status by calling an arbitry url

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test

##### example output:

    metric glance_registry_local_status uint32 1
    metric glance_registry_local_response_time uint32 356.917 ms

***
#### memcached_status.py

##### Description:
Connects to a memcached server

##### mandatory args:
IP address of memcached server

##### optional args:
--port: port of service to test (default '15672')

##### example output:

    metric memcache_api_local_status uint32 1
    metric memcache_total_items uint64 563324 items
    metric memcache_get_hits uint64 4543534 hits
    metric memcache_get_misses uint64 2346565 misses
    metric memcache_total_connections uint64 42565 connections

***
#### horizon_check.py

##### Description:
Checks the status of the horizon dashboard. First checks that the login page is available, then uses the creds from the openrc-maas file to actually log in.

##### mandatory args:
IP address of service to test
##### example output:

    metric splash_status_code uint32 200
    metric splash_milliseconds double 83.557 ms
    metric login_status_code uint32 200 http_status
    metric login_milliseconds double 1344.399 ms

***
#### rabbitmq_status.py

##### Description:
connects to an individual member of a rabbit cluster and grabs statistics from the rabbit status API

##### optional args:
--host: IP of service to test (default 'localhost')
--port: port of service to test (default '15672')
--username: username to test with (default 'guest')
--password: password to test with (default 'guest')

##### example output:

    metric rabbitmq_uptime int64 73439448 ms
    metric rabbitmq_proc_total int64 1048576 processes
    metric rabbitmq_proc_used int64 180 processes
    metric rabbitmq_messages int64 0 messages
    metric rabbitmq_sockets_total int64 3594 fd
    metric rabbitmq_fd_used int64 24 fd
    metric rabbitmq_mem_used int64 41562432 bytes
    metric rabbitmq_fd_total int64 4096 fd
    metric rabbitmq_disk_free_alarm_status uint32 1
    metric rabbitmq_mem_limit int64 3362471936 bytes
    metric rabbitmq_mem_alarm_status uint32 1
    metric rabbitmq_sockets_used int64 1 fd
    metric rabbitmq_messages_unacknowledged int64 0 messages
    metric rabbitmq_messages_ready int64 0 messages

***
#### galera_check.py

##### Description:
connects to an individual member of a galera cluster and checks various statuses to ensure the member is fully synced and considered active

##### optional args:
--host: IP of service to test (default 'localhost')
--port: port of service to test (default '15672')

##### example output:

    metric wsrep_replicated_bytes int64 320737952 bytes
    metric wsrep_received_bytes int64 33470 bytes
    metric wsrep_commit_window double 1.000000
    metric wsrep_cluster_size int64 3 nodes
    metric queries_per_second int64 5792715 qps
    metric wsrep_cluster_state_uuid string 67e41d08-165d-11e4-9d87-7e94ef43b302
    metric wsrep_cluster_status string primary
    metric wsrep_local_state_uuid string 67e41d08-165d-11e4-9d87-7e94ef43b302
    metric wsrep_local_state_comment string synced

***
#### conntrack_count.py

#### Description:
Returns, as metrics, the values of /proc/sys/net/netfilter/nf_conntrack_count and /proc/sys/net/netfilter/nf_conntrack_max.

The kernel modules nf_conntrack_ipv4 and/or nf_conntrack_ipv6 must be loaded for this plugin to work.

#### Example output:

    status okay
    metric nf_conntrack_max uint32 262144
    metric nf_conntrack_count uint32 354

***
#### hp_monitoring.py

#### Description:
Returns metrics indicating the status of parts of HP hardware.

#### Example output:

    status okay
    metric hardware_memory_status uint32 1
    metric hardware_processors_status uint32 1
    metric hardware_disk_status uint32 1
